chore: Review upgrade guide for v13 (#3246)
Workday/canvas-kit: modules/docs/mdx/13.0-UPGRADE-GUIDE.mdx

[reach out](https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/issues/new?labels=bug&template=bug.md) if you have

> any questions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
any questions. For common upgrade issues, please see the Troubleshooting section at the end of this doc.
```

## Why You Should Upgrade

### Improved Support for ESModules

> We've updated the `jsx` flag in our `tsconfig` to `react-jsx` to provide better support for newer technologies like `Vite`. As part of this change, we're also updated our peer dependencies of `React` to a minimum version of `17.0.0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've updated the `jsx` flag in our `tsconfig` to `react-jsx` to provide better support for newer technologies including `Vite`. As part of this change, we've also updated our `react` peer dependencies to a minimum version of `17.0.0`.
```

> ### Refactored Components to Use our Styling API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Refactored Components to Use Our Styling API
```

> We've continued to refactor our component to use our new Styling API and CSS Tokens. This allows us to provide a more consistent styling experience across our components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've continued refactoring our components to use our new Styling API and CSS Tokens. This allows us to provide a more consistent styling experience across our components.
```

> ### Provide New Branding Logos

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Provide New Brand Logos
```

> As part of a brand refresh, we now provided updated logos that reflect the new Workday branding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As part of Workday's brand refresh, we've updated our Workday logos to align with our new brand design.
```

yarn remove @workday/canvas-kit-codemod
```

Having trouble running our codemods? View our

> [docs](https://workday.github.io/canvas-kit/?path=/docs/guides-codemods) for more information!

Reviewer 2: Fix broken link (this link will work once v13 is released).
```suggestion
[docs](https://workday.github.io/canvas-kit/?path=/docs/guides-codemods--docs) for more information!
```

## Component Updates

### Styling API and Canvas Tokens 💅

Several components have been refactored to use our
[Canvas tokens](https://workday.github.io/canvas-tokens/?path=/docs/docs-getting-started--docs) and
[styling API](https://workday.github.io/canvas-kit/?path=/docs/styling-basics--create-modifiers#createstyles-api).
The React interface **has not changed**, but Canvas Tokens are now used for dynamic properties.

> **Note:** These components also support our `cs` prop for styling. Learn more about styling with
> `cs` in our

> > [documentation](https://workday.github.io/canvas-kit/?path=/docs/styling-basics--cs-prop).

Reviewer 2: Fix broken link.
```suggestion
> [documentation](https://workday.github.io/canvas-kit/?path=/docs/styling-basics--docs#cs-prop).
```

- `SidePanel (Preview)` [#3123](https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/pull/3123)
- `Skeleton` [#3088](https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/pull/3088)
- `Tabs` [#3119](https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/pull/3119)
- `Tooltip` [#3164](https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/pull/3164)

### Avatar 🚨

**PR:** [#3231](https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/pull/3231)

The following change has been made to `Avatar` to ensure proper accessibility.

- The `altText` prop no longer has a default value of `"Avatar"` for better internalization. This
  default phrase caused some to accidentally omit translations which caused translation issues.

> **Note:** This change also impacts `Pill.Avatar` and `Expandable.Avatar`. You must provide a value
> to `altText` to ensure proper accessibility. Our examples have been updated to reflect this
> change.

**Before in v12**

```tsx
// Avatar component always had a default altText of "Avatar"
<Avatar as="div" />
```

**After in v13**

```tsx
// You must provide alt text to the `altText` prop. Please choose a apt description based on your `Avatar`'s usage.
<Avatar altText="User profile avatar" as="div" />
```

### Expandable ⚡️

> **PR:** [#3213](https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/pull/3213)

Reviewer 2: Linked PR is incorrect.

```suggestion
**PR:** [#3217](https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/pull/3217)
```

**Before in v12**

```tsx
import {Expandable} from '@workday/canvas-kit-labs-react/expandable';
```

**After in v13**

```tsx
import {Expandable} from '@workday/canvas-kit-react/expandable';
```

> 🤖 The codemod will handle the change of imports as shown above.

### External Hyperlink 🚨

**PR:** [#3101](https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/pull/3101)

The following change has been made to `ExternalHyperlink` to ensure proper accessibility.

- The `iconLabel` prop no longer has a default value of `"Opens link in new window"`. This default
  phrase caused some to accidentally omit translations which caused translation issues.

> **Note:** While the prop is not required, you _must_ provide an `iconLabel` for `<ExternalHyperlink />` to ensure proper
> accessibility. Our examples have been updated to reflect this change.

**Before in v12**

```tsx
<ExternalHyperlink href="https://workday.com">External Hyperlink</ExternalHyperlink>
```

**After in v13**

```tsx
<ExternalHyperlink href="https://workday.com" iconLabel="Navigate to Workday">
  External Hyperlink
</ExternalHyperlink>
```

### Form Field and Form Field Group 🚨

> **PR:** [#3101](https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/pull/3101)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**PR:** [#3254](https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/pull/3254)
```

- `Tabs`
- `Tooltip`

### Avatar 🚨

**PR:** [#3231](https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/pull/3231)

The following change has been made to `Avatar` to ensure proper accessibility.

- The `altText` prop no longer has a default of `"Avatar"` for better internalization. The default was an English word (“Avatar”) and this has caused issues in the past with translations.

>**Note:** You *must* provide an `altText` for `<Avatar />, <Pill.Avatar />, <Expandable.Avatar />` to ensure proper accessibility.  Our examples have been updated to reflect this change.

**Before in v12**
```tsx
// Avatar component always had a default altText of "Avatar"
<Avatar as="div" />
```

**After in v13**
```tsx

> // You must provide an altText that makes sense for the context in which the Avatar is used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// You must provide alt text to the `altText` prop. Please choose a apt description based on your `Avatar`'s usage.
```

> <Avatar altText="My Avatar" as="div" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Avatar altText="User profile avatar" as="div" />
```

```

### Expandable ⚡️

**PR:** [#3213](https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/pull/3213)

We've promoted `Expandable` from [Labs](#labs) to [Main](#main).

**Before in v12**
```tsx
import {Expandable} from '@workday/canvas-kit-labs-react/expandable';
```

**After in v13**
```tsx
import {Expandable} from '@workday/canvas-kit-react/expandable';
```

> 🤖 The codemod will handle the change of imports as shown above.

### External Hyperlink 🚨

**PR:** [#3101](https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/pull/3101)

The following change has been made to `ExternalHyperlink` to ensure proper accessibility.

> - The `iconLabel` prop no longer has a default of `"Opens link in new window"`. The default was an English phrase (Opens link in new window) and this has caused issues in the past with translations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `iconLabel` prop no longer has a default of `"Opens link in new window"`. This default phrase caused some to accidentally omit translations which caused translation issues.
```

>**Note:** You *must* provide an `iconLabel` for `<ExternalHyperlink />` to ensure proper accessibility.  Our examples have been updated to reflect this change.

**Before in v12**
```tsx
<ExternalHyperlink href="https://workday.com">
  External Hyperlink
</ExternalHyperlink>
```
**After in v13**
```tsx
<ExternalHyperlink href="https://workday.com" iconLabel='Navigate to Workday'>
  External Hyperlink
</ExternalHyperlink>
```

### Pill (Preview) 🚨

**PR:** [#3104](https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/pull/3104)

A few changes have been made to `Pill` to ensure proper accessibility and styles.

- The border color on hover has been updated from `licorice400` to `licorice500` to match our design specs.

> - We've removed extra elements and leverage [flex box](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Core/CSS_layout/Flexbox) to ensure only the label receives overflow styles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We've removed extra elements and now use [flex box](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Core/CSS_layout/Flexbox) to ensure only the label receives text overflow styles when needed.
```

> - When `maxWidth` is set, it is set on the parent `<Pill/>` element and the child elements will be styled accordingly. Before v13, `maxWidth` wasn't calculating the width of all its elements and wasn't a true pixel value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Setting `maxWidth` on the parent `<Pill/>` element now styles the child elements correctly. Before v13, `maxWidth` wasn't calculating the width of all its elements and wasn't a true pixel value.
```

- `<Pill.IconButton/>` no longer has a default `aria-label="remove"`. You *must* provide an `aria-label` for `<Pill.IconButton/>` to ensure proper accessibility. Our examples have been updated to reflect this change.

> - `<Pill.Label/>` is a *required* element when using other sub-components like `<Pill.Icon/>` to ensure that the label truncates correctly.

Reviewer: We're unfortunately inconsistent on "subcomponent" in Canvas Kit, but it is [a defined word](https://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/dictionary/english/subcomponent).

```suggestion
- `<Pill.Label/>` is a *required* element when using other subcomponents such as `<Pill.Icon/>` to ensure that the label truncates correctly.
```

**Before in v12**
```tsx
import {Pill, usePillModel} from '@workday/canvas-kit-preview-react/pill';

> const model = usePillModel({
> 	maxWidth: 200,
> });
> 
> <Pill model={model}>
> 	<Pill.Icon />
> 	Shoes
> </Pill>

Reviewer: nit: Fixing odd tab spacing

```suggestion
const model = usePillModel({
  maxWidth: 200,
});

<Pill model={model}>
  <Pill.Icon />
  Shoes
</Pill>
```

```

**After in v13**
```tsx
import {Pill} from '@workday/canvas-kit-preview-react/pill';

> <Pill maxWidth={200}>
> 	<Pill.Icon aria-label='Add Shoes' />
> 	<Pill.Label>Shoes</Pill.Label>
> </Pill>
> 
> <Pill maxWidth={200}>
> 	<Pill.Label>Shirts</Pill.Label>
> 	<Pill.IconButton aria-label='Remove Shirts' />
> </Pill>

Reviewer: nit: Fixing odd tab spacing

```suggestion
<Pill maxWidth={200}>
  <Pill.Icon aria-label='Add Shoes' />
  <Pill.Label>Shoes</Pill.Label>
</Pill>

<Pill maxWidth={200}>
  <Pill.Label>Shirts</Pill.Label>
  <Pill.IconButton aria-label='Remove Shirts' />
</Pill>
```

```

> 🤖 The codemod will handle the change adding `<Pill.Label/>` if `<Pill.Icon/>` or `<Pill.IconButton/>` is being used.

### Tabs 💅

**PR:** [#3119](https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/pull/3119)

- The `disabled` icon color has been updated to use `system.color.fg.disabled`. This has made the icon darker for better contrast.

> > **Note:** There should be no developer impact and the visual changes are safe to accept.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** There should be no developer impact, and the visual changes are safe to accept.
```

  `aria-label` for `Pill.Icon` to ensure proper accessibility. Our examples have been updated to
  reflect this change.
- `Pill.IconButton` no longer has a default `aria-label="remove"`. You _must_ provide an
  `aria-label` for `Pill.IconButton` to ensure proper accessibility. Our examples have been updated
  to reflect this change.
- `Pill.Label` is a _required_ element when using other subcomponents such as `Pill.Icon` to ensure
  that the label truncates correctly.

**Before in v12**

```tsx
import {Pill, usePillModel} from '@workday/canvas-kit-preview-react/pill';

const model = usePillModel({
  maxWidth: 200,
});

<Pill model={model}>
  <Pill.Icon />
  Shoes
</Pill>;
```

**After in v13**

```tsx
import {Pill} from '@workday/canvas-kit-preview-react/pill';

<Pill maxWidth={200}>
  <Pill.Icon aria-label='Add Shoes' />
  <Pill.Label>Shoes</Pill.Label>
</Pill>

<Pill maxWidth={200}>
  <Pill.Label>Shirts</Pill.Label>
  <Pill.IconButton aria-label='Remove Shirts' />
</Pill>
```

> 🤖 The codemod will handle the change adding `Pill.Label` if `Pill.Icon` or `Pill.IconButton` is
> being used.

### Side Panel (Preview) 🚨

> **PR:** [3258](https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/pull/3258)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**PR:** [#3258](https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/pull/3258)
```

import {dubLogoPrimary} from "@workday/canvas-kit-preview-react/common"

<div dangerouslySetInnerHTML={__html: dubLogoPrimary} />
```
**After in v13**
```tsx
// New logos have been promoted to Main common AND renamed
import {dubLogoPrimary} from "@workday/canvas-kit-preview-react/common"

<div dangerouslySetInnerHTML={__html: dubLogoPrimary} />
```

> > 🤖 The codemod will handle the change of `'dubLogoBlue', 'dubLogoWhite', 'wdayLogoBlue', 'wdayLogoWhite'` to

Reviewer: Question: Do all logo import names get updated? Can we say "all are updated" instead?

Author: Yeah good call out, updated.

> `'dubLogoPrimary', 'dubLogoReversed', 'wdayLogoPrimary', 'wdayLogoReversed'` as shown above in the table. It will also handle
> updating your imports.

## Infrastructure

### Supporting `react-jsx` 🚨

We've updated the `jsx` flag in our `tsconfig` to `react-jsx`. As part of this change, we've also updated our peer dependencies for our packages to a minimum version of `react@17.0.0`. This change is to provide support for modern technologies like `vite` and ES modules.

##### Breaking Changes

If you're using `react@16.x.x`, you'll need to upgrade to `react@17.x.x` to use Canvas Kit v13.

> > **Note:** You'll need to update the way `jsx` transpiles. The automatic runtime feature, enabled through the `@babel/preset-react` preset with the `runtime: "automatic"` option, handles the importing of functions that JSX transpiles to.

Reviewer: Question: "You'll need to update the way `jsx` transpiles." Can we be more specific on what needs to be done here?

Author: I linked to the Babel docs for better understanding!

## Troubleshooting

- When upgrading to the latest major version of Canvas Kit, all related Canvas Kit packages should be updated at the same time:

> 	- `"@workday/canvas-kit-docs": "^12.5.6"` -> `"@workday/canvas-kit-docs": "^13.0.0"`

Reviewer: Question: Is anyone using the Canvas Kit docs package outside of our team?

Author: Good point, removed it.

	- `"@workday/canvas-kit-react": "^12.5.6"` -> `"@workday/canvas-kit-react": "^13.0.0"`
	- `"@workday/canvas-kit-styling": "^12.5.6"` -> `"@workday/canvas-kit-styling": "^13.0.0"`
	- `"@workday/canvas-kit-preview-react": "^12.5.6"` -> `"@workday/canvas-kit-preview-react": "^13.0.0"`
	- `"@workday/canvas-kit-labs-react": "^12.5.6"` -> `"@workday/canvas-kit-labs-react": "^13.0.0"`

> - Our components rely on the `@workday/canvas-tokens-web` package to ensure correct styling and use of CSS variables. Ensure you're upgrading to the latest version and installing it correctly. For more information, view our [docs](https://workday.github.io/canvas-tokens/?path=/docs/docs-getting-started--docs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Our components rely on the `@workday/canvas-tokens-web` package which provides our CSS variables and ensures the correct styling of our components. Make sure to upgrade to the latest version of Canvas Tokens Web and install it correctly. For more information, [view our docs](https://workday.github.io/canvas-tokens/?path=/docs/docs-getting-started--docs).
```

Reviewer: This is a good call out. It catches a lot of people. 👍🏼
